examples/readme.md, before:

Watson Speech JavaScript SDK Examples
=====================================

This folder has example Node.js and Python servers to generate auth tokens and 
several html files (in `static/`) with different examples of using the Speech SDK. 

There are also a few audio files to test with in the `static/` folder.


Prerequisite
------------

* IBM Watson Speech to Text service credentials - see http://www.ibm.com/watson/developercloud/doc/getting_started/gs-credentials.shtml
* Node.js OR Python


Setup - Node.js
---------------

1. `cd` into the `examples/` directory and run `npm install` to grab dependencies
2. edit `tts-token.js` and `stt-token.js` to include your service credentials (or create a `.env` file)
3. run `npm start`
4. Open your browser to http://localhost:3000/ to see the examples.


Setup - Python
--------------

1. `cd` into the `examples/` directory and run `pip install watson_developer_cloud flask` (or `easy_install...`) to grab dependencies
2. edit `server.py` to include your service credentials (or create a `.env` file)
3. run `python server.py`
4. Open your browser to http://localhost:5000/ to see the examples.


Notes
-----

* The examples all use [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) (a modern promise-based replacement for XMLHttpRequest) to retrieve auth tokens. 
  Most supported browsers include a native fetch implementation, but a pollyfill is included in the top-level module for older browsers.
* The examples use a Node.js server to generate tokens. It doesn't have to be written in Node.js, but *some server-side token generator is required*. 
  The SDK will not accept your service credentials directly, and you can not use them to generate a token client-side. 
  SDKs are available for [Node.js](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/node-sdk#authorization), 
  [Java](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/java-sdk), 
  [Python](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/python-sdk/blob/master/examples/authorization_v1.py), 
  and there is a [REST API](http://www.ibm.com/smarterplanet/us/en/ibmwatson/developercloud/doc/getting_started/gs-tokens.shtml) 
  for use with other languages (or `curl`).
* The Speech SDK may be used in browserify or as a standalone library; all of the current examples use it as a standalone library for simplicity.


More Examples
-------------

* Speech to Text: [Demo](https://speech-to-text-demo.mybluemix.net/), [Code](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/speech-to-text-nodejs)
* Speech & Dialog services together: [Demo](https://speech-dialog.mybluemix.net/), [Code](https://github.com/nfriedly/speech-dialog)
* Text to Speech w/ word timings: [Demo](http://watson-tts-timing.mybluemix.net/), [Code](https://github.com/nfriedly/tts-timing)

Commit message:

switching example to use bower-installed library (still symlinked to root when developing)

examples/readme.md, after:

Watson Speech JavaScript SDK Examples
=====================================

This folder has example Node.js and Python servers to generate auth tokens and 
several html files (in `static/`) with different examples of using the Speech SDK. 

There are also a few audio files to test with in the `static/` folder.


Prerequisite
------------

* IBM Watson Speech to Text service credentials - see http://www.ibm.com/watson/developercloud/doc/getting_started/gs-credentials.shtml
* Node.js OR Python


Setup - Node.js
---------------

1. `cd` into the `examples/` directory and run `npm install` to grab dependencies
2. edit `tts-token.js` and `stt-token.js` to include your service credentials (or create a `.env` file)
3. run `npm start`
4. Open your browser to http://localhost:3000/ to see the examples.


Setup - Python
--------------

1. `cd` into the `examples/` directory and run `pip install watson_developer_cloud flask` (or `easy_install...`) to grab dependencies
2. edit `server.py` to include your service credentials (or create a `.env` file)
3. run `python server.py`
4. Open your browser to http://localhost:5000/ to see the examples.


Notes
-----

* The examples all use [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) (a modern promise-based replacement for XMLHttpRequest) to retrieve auth tokens. 
  Most supported browsers include a native fetch implementation, but a pollyfill is included in the top-level module for older browsers.
* The examples use a Node.js server to generate tokens. It doesn't have to be written in Node.js, but *some server-side token generator is required*. 
  The SDK will not accept your service credentials directly, and you can not use them to generate a token client-side. 
  SDKs are available for [Node.js](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/node-sdk#authorization), 
  [Java](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/java-sdk), 
  [Python](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/python-sdk/blob/master/examples/authorization_v1.py), 
  and there is a [REST API](http://www.ibm.com/smarterplanet/us/en/ibmwatson/developercloud/doc/getting_started/gs-tokens.shtml) 
  for use with other languages (or `curl`).
* The Speech SDK may be used in browserify, Webpack, or as a standalone library.
  Most of the examples use the standalone version either installed via bower or symlinked to the root directory when developing locally.


More Examples
-------------

* Speech to Text: [Demo](https://speech-to-text-demo.mybluemix.net/), [Code](https://github.com/watson-developer-cloud/speech-to-text-nodejs)
* Speech & Dialog services together: [Demo](https://speech-dialog.mybluemix.net/), [Code](https://github.com/nfriedly/speech-dialog)
* Text to Speech w/ word timings: [Demo](http://watson-tts-timing.mybluemix.net/), [Code](https://github.com/nfriedly/tts-timing)
